To start, just a bit about who is involved, and why. Hedge funds are what is known as a Limited Partnership. They are basically groups of people who make their money by borrowing other peoples money and taking high risk/high reward positions. A lot of them have diverse portfolios with stable investments as well, but thats mostly just to protect their initial investments. The profit (and there's a lot of it) they make is generated primarily by investing in speculative vehicles such as options contracts. These are high risk/high reward investments. Sure you can lose, but these guys aren't morons. The thing that separates the market from a casino is the ability to do research and make educated choices. You can't predict what a slot machine or a blackjack dealer is doing with math, and if you can, its against the rules to do so. Not true of the stock market. That being said though, there's always risk. No matter what, shit could always go tits up at any moment because of something unpredictable. The pendulum swings both ways though, and when you do come out on top, it pays off big. That's what hedge funds are doing. employing tons of traders to do the research, work with the analysts, and make the right trades. They are super successful most of the time. In this case, they both shorted shares, as well as took on options positions that were downside bets.
r/wsb is a group comprised mostly of people under 40 who also make these high risk/high reward trades. the difference is, most of us are doing it with a few thousand bucks and no fucking clue what we're doing. Every now and then, even dumbshits like us can do a little reading and calculator work and figure out a sick play to run on a stock that has big potential. When we stumble onto such treasure, we share it with the group. Some of the members are actually smart fucking people who really know how to do research and shit way beyond my own abilities, and luckily, these benevolent saints freely share their knowledge with the rest of us. Thats what got us into the GME thing. It didnt start out as a class movement. it started out as a guy with a good play that no one really saw, and over time, became the legend we see unfolding.
Now, what is short selling and why do it?
Short selling is not evil or bad or mean. Fuck what papa elon says, its a mechanism in place for a reason. Anyone with a margin account can short stock. Anyone who gets approved (which any retail investor can be with some money to trade and willingness to fill out a form) can sell naked options. Both are risky, and not suitable for everyone, but ANYONE WITH SOME CASH CAN DO IT. It's simply borrowing stock at the current (hopefully high) market price to sell, and buying it back at a later date. People do this all the time.
However, when PEOPLE do it, its because of a few reasons. One, a stock is overvalued. When wall street busts a nut over the next big thing, and you think its a sham or not going to be profitable, you can short after all the lunatics buy it into the stratosphere, then make a clean profit if youre right, and the hype was too much. you buy the stock back for cheap, the brokerage that lent it to you has the shares back (plus your margin interest) and you keep the difference. No one roots for corporations to make more money, so when you see one with overpriced stock, short em. its your god given right to do so.
Now, when hedge funds do it, it can be for those reasons. Although, they're leveraging with so much money that they can really break a company just because they smell blood in the water. Gamestop, for example.
The thing to keep in mind now is that hedge funds have been these untouchable, market manipulating forces for years. They made billions when your uncle Larry lost his retirement in 2008 and laughed at him. Obama pumped the brakes on them a bit, but Trump took the brakes the fuck off. These funds are throwing billions around with armies of traders to run the same plays and pushing the market wherever they need it to go. They are efficient, and they are ruthless. They also have the same problem as the rest of rich white america of thinking themselves above the rules, and above the lower classes like us.
In this scenario, hedge funds have been circling Gamestop like sharks for a while, shorting them, selling what are called "naked options" (an extremely risky move that sells option contracts and obligates them to deliver either shares or cash that they do not have) on borrowed money. This is where WSB comes in. They see these rich fat cat fuckers doing all this. Doing it to the point they have shorted or promised to deliver via options MORE SHARES THAN ARE CURRENTLY AVAILABLE ON THE MARKET. This is super stupid for a multitude of reasons, but im sure you can see whats wrong with it pretty quickly. This is sheer arrogance. This is saying "fuck you peasants, the stock market is ours" and they've been doing it for YEARS.
Now, enter WSB and u/DeepFuckingValue. These idiots saw this happening. They watched, and read, and figured out what was going on. They liked gamestop anyway because they're fucking millennials like me who grew up going to them. Then, an amazing thing happened. PS5 came out, and true to the console cycle, Gamestop made fuckin bank on them. So much bank, their Q3 profits exceeded their entire market cap. This made WSB REALLY like the stock. Like, really like it. After a while, when they saw the impact they were having, it became a movement. People piling on because they saw the hedge funds sweating. YOLO'ing their whole accounts into GME calls and turned thousands into millions. All the while watching themselves sticking it to the billionaire fucks who keep us all poor. Beating them at their own game they want to keep us out of.
Now of course CNBC and a bunch of other old fucks are complaining to the government to stop the mean kids from calling their stupid shitty bets and winning. This is not the rich getting richer. This is poor morons banding together to say FUCK the old stuffy assclowns in New York and Chicago thinking they get to tell us we cant play the game too. We can. You can. This will keep happening if we keep making it happen. You can invest with just a few dollars. You can learn how for free. If we're going to be forced to play at capitalism anyway, we might as well weaponize it the way they have.
i think that sums it up, im gonna smoke a bowl.